#summary How to create utilities search parameter objects from the command line.

=IdentificationParameters Command Line Interface=

IdentificationParametersCLI can be used to create an identification parameter file via the command line, for use in tools like [http://searchgui.googlecode.com SearchGUI], [http://denovogui.googlecode.com DeNovoGUI] and [http://peptide-shaker.googlecode.com  PeptideShaker].

Note that in most cases it is not recommended to use the command line to generate the identification parameter file, but rather to set up the wanted identification parameter file in the GUI, save it, and than use it in the command line processing.

Also note that most OMSSA, X!Tandem and PepNovo+ settings listed below are for export usage only. Changes from the default settings should be done with care.

*General command lines:*

{{{
java -cp SearchGUI-X.Y.Z.jar 
eu.isas.searchgui.cmd.IdentificationParametersCLI [parameters]
}}}

{{{
java -cp PeptideShaker-X.Y.Z.jar 
eu.isas.peptideshaker.cmd.IdentificationParametersCLI [parameters]
}}}

*General parameters:*

{{{
-db	                The sequence database in FASTA format.

-out                    The destination Identification Parameters file (.parameters).

-prec_ppm               Precursor ion tolerance unit: ppm (1) or Da (2), default is '1'.

-frag_ppm               Fragment ion tolerance unit: ppm (1) or Da (2), default is '1'.

-prec_tol               Precursor ion mass tolerance, default is '10' ppm.

-prec_tol               Precursor ion mass tolerance in Dalton, default is 0.5 Da.

-frag_tol               Fragment ion mass tolerance in Dalton, default is '0.5' Da.

-enzyme                 Enzyme, default is 'Trypsin'. 
                        Available enzymes are listed in the GUI. (Note: case sensitive.)

-fixed_mods             Fixed modifications as comma separated list,
                        e.g., "oxidation of m, phosphorylation of s"

-variable_mods          Variable modifications as comma separated list,
                        e.g., "oxidation of m, phosphorylation of s"

-min_charge             Minimal charge to search for, default is '2'.

-max_charge             Maximal charge to search for, default is '4'.

-mc                     Number of allowed missed cleavages, default is '2'.

-fi                     Type of forward ion searched, default is 'b'.

-ri                     Type of rewind ion searched, default is 'y'.

-mods                   Lists the available modifications.
}}}

*OMSSA specific parameters:*

{{{
-omssa_memory            OMSSA map sequences in memory option, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-omssa_isotopes          OMSSA number of isotopes option, integer, 0: monoisotopic, default is '0'.

-omssa_neutron           Mass after which OMSSA should consider neutron exact mass, default is '1446.94'.

-omssa_low_intensity     OMSSA low intensity cutoff as percentage of the most intense peak, default is '0.0'.

-omssa_high_intensity    OMSSA high intensity cutoff as percentage of the most intense peak, default is '0.2'.

-omssa_intensity_incr    OMSSA intensity increment, default is '0.0005'.

-omssa_single_window_wd  OMSSA single charge window width in Da, integer, default is '27'.

-omssa_double_window_wd  OMSSA double charge window width in Da, integer, default is '14'.

-omssa_single_window_pk  OMSSA single charge window number of peaks, integer, default is '2'.

-omssa_double_window_pk  OMSSA double charge window number of peaks, integer, default is '2'.

-omssa_min_ann_int_pks   OMSSA minimum number of annotated peaks among the most intense ones, integer, 
                         default is '6'.

-omssa_min_annotated_peaks
                         OMSSA minimum number of annotated peaks, integer, default is '2'.

-omssa_min_peaks         OMSSA minimum number of peaks, integer, default is '4'.

-omssa_methionine        OMSSA N-terminal methionine cleavage option, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-omssa_max_ladders       OMSSA maximum number of m/z ladders, integer, default is '128'.

-omssa_max_frag_charge   OMSSA maximum fragment charge, integer, default is '2'.

-omssa_fraction          OMSSA fraction of peaks to estimate charge 1, default is '0.95'.

-omssa_plus_one          OMSSA estimate plus one charge algorithmically option, 
                         1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-omssa_charge            OMSSA fragment charge option, 1: plus, 0: minus, default is '1'.

-omssa_prec_per_spectrum OMSSA minimum number of precursors per spectrum, integer, default is '1'.

-omssa_forward           OMSSA include first forward ion (b1) in search, 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-omssa_rewind            OMSSA search rewind (C-terminal) ions option, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-omssa_max_frag_series   OMSSA maximum fragment per series option, integer, default is '100'.

-omssa_corr              OMSSA use correlation correction score option, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-omssa_consecutive_p     OMSSA consecutive ion probability, default is '0.5'.

-omssa_it_sequence_evalue
                         OMSSA e-value cutoff to consider a sequence in the iterative search 0.0 means all, 
                         default is '0.0'.

-omssa_it_spectrum_evalue
                         OMSSA e-value cutoff to consider a spectrum in the iterative search 0.0 means all, 
                         default is '0.01'.

-omssa_it_replace_evalue OMSSA e-value cutoff to replace a hit in the iterative search 0.0 means keep best, 
                         default is '0.0'.

-omssa_remove_prec       OMSSA remove precursor option, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-omssa_scale_prec        OMSSA scale precursor mass option, 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-omssa_estimate_charge   OMSSA estimate precursor charge option, 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-omssa_max_evalue        OMSSA maximal evalue considered, default is '100'.

-omssa_hitlist_length    OMSSA hitlist length, 0 means all, default is '0'.

-omssa_hitlist_charge    OMSSA number of hits per spectrum per charge, default is '30'.

-omssa_min_pep_length    OMSSA minumum peptide length (semi-tryptic or no enzyme searches only).

-omssa_max_pep_length    OMSSA maximum peptide length (OMSSA semi-tryptic or no enzyme searches only).

-omssa_format            OMSSA output format. 0: omx, 1: csv, default is 'omx'.
}}}

*X!Tandem specific parameters:*

{{{
-xtandem_dynamic_range    X!Tandem 'spectrum, dynamic range' option, default is '100'.

-xtandem_npeaks           X!Tandem 'spectrum, total peaks' option, default is '50'.

-xtandem_min_frag_mz      X!Tandem 'spectrum, minimum fragment mz' option, default is '200'.

-xtandem_min_peaks        X!Tandem 'spectrum, minimum peaks' option, default is '15'.

-xtandem_noise_suppr      X!Tandem 'spectrum, use noise suppression' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_min_prec_mass    X!Tandem 'spectrum, minimum parent m+h' option, default is '500'.

-xtandem_quick_acetyl     X!Tandem 'protein, quick acetyl' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-xtandem_quick_pyro       X!Tandem 'protein, quick pyrolidone' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-xtandem_stp_bias         X!Tandem 'protein, stP bias' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_refine           X!Tandem 'refine' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-xtandem_refine_evalue    X!Tandem 'refine, maximum valid expectation value' option, default is '0.01'.

-xtandem_refine_unc       X!Tandem 'refine, unanticipated cleavage' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-xtandem_refine_semi      X!Tandem 'refine, cleavage semi' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_refine_pot       X!Tandem 'refine, use potential modifications for full refinement' option. 
                          1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_refine_p_mut     X!Tandem 'refine, point mutations' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_refine_snaps     X!Tandem 'refine, saps' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-xtandem_refine_spec_synt X!Tandem 'refine, spectrum synthesis' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-xtandem_evalue           X!Tandem 'output, maximum valid expectation value' option, default is '100'.

-xtandem_output_proteins  X!Tandem 'output, proteins' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_output_sequences X!Tandem 'output, sequences' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_output_spectra   X!Tandem 'output, spectra' option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.

-xtandem_skyline_path     X!Tandem 'spectrum, skyline path' option.
}}}

*PepNovo+ specific parameters:*

{{{
-pepnovo_hitlist_length   PepNovo+ number of de novo solutions [0-2000], default is '10'.

-pepnovo_estimate_charge  PepNovo+ estimate precursor charge option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-pepnovo_correct_prec_mass
                          PepNovo+ correct precursor mass option. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-pepnovo_discard_spectra  PepNovo+ discard low quality spectra optoin. 1: true, 0: false, default is '1'.

-pepnovo_fragmentation_model
                          PepNovo+ fragmentation model, default is 'CID_IT_TRYP'.

-pepnovo_generate_blast   PepNovo+ generate a BLAST query. 1: true, 0: false, default is '0'.
}}}

----

==Comma Separated List==

When using comma separated lists as input for the the PTMs, please pay attention to the quotes required. Surround the full content of the option in quotes and not the individual items:

{{{
-variable_mods "oxidation of m, phosphorylation of s"
}}}

----

== Help==

If you experience any problems with the command lines or have any suggestion please contact us via the [https://groups.google.com/group/peptide-shaker PeptideShaker mailing list].