#summary Short summary of changes for each version of compomics-utilities.

----

*Note:* This file is no longer updated please see  [http://code.google.com/p/compomics-utilities/updates/list Updates] for the latest changes.

----

*Changes in compomics-utilties 3.0.27 (Nov. 24. 2010):*
 * NEW FEATURE: Added FASTA header parsing for TrEMBL headers.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Updated the Experiment package. 
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug with SP FASTA header parsing. 
 * BUG FIX: Changed logging to stdout/stderr for DB accessor generator.

----

*Changes in compomics-utilties 3.0.23 (Nov. 7. 2010):*
 * NEW FEATURE: Experiment model extended with report ion support. 
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in GraphicsPanel that resulted in the peak mouse-over-annotations disappearing even when not moving the mouse.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug introduced when hiding the data points just below the x-axis, where the background color was always set to white. The panel's background color is now used.

Download Count: 2

----

*Changes in compomics-utilties 3.0.22 (Sept. 9. 2010):*
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the _in silico_ digestion demo where the enzyme was always set to Trypsin.

Download Count: 7

----

*Changes in compomics-utilties 3.0.21 (Sept. 8. 2010):*
 * NEW FEATURE: Added methods for exporting components to different figure formats (png, pdf, svg etc). 
 * NEW FEATURE: Added an export to PDF example to the SpectrumPanel demo.
 * NEW FEATURE: And added lots of proteomics related file filters.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Made visual improvements to the GraphicsPanel to better support exports to high resolution figure formats. 
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Extended the isotopicDistribution demo help text. 

Download Count: 1

----

*Changes in compomics-utilties 3.0.20 (Sept. 3. 2010):*
 * NEW FEATURE: SILAC labeling added to the isotopicDistribution calculation.
 * FEATURE IMPROVEMENT: Updated the Isotopic Distribution Calculator Demo.
 * BUG FIX: Fixed a bug in the return enzyme as a string for X!Tandem method. 

Download Count: 0

----

*Changes in compomics-utilties 3.0.18 (Sept. 2. 2010):*
 * First release of the revised compomics-utilties. Now including demos of some of the main features of the library.

Download Count: 0